Dependencies
============
This section should specify what packages are needed to build and run NAV.  Be
aware that many of these packages have dependencies of their own.

Build requirements
------------------
To build NAV, you need at least the following:

 * make
 * autoconf
 * ant
 * Perl >= 5.6.0
 * Python >= 2.4.0
 * Java 2 SDK >= 1.5.0
 * JavaSnmp >= 1.4 (A.K.A Drexel SNMP)
 * Cheetah Templates >= 2.0rc7

Runtime requirements
--------------------
To run NAV, these software packages are required:

 * Apache2
 * mod_python
 * Cricket
 * PostgreSQL >= 8.0
 * rrdtool
 * Cheetah Templates >= 2.0rc7
 * Java 2 SDK >= 1.5.0
 * Perl >= 5.6.0
 * Python >= 2.4.0

The following Perl modules are required:

 * Pg

The following Java librares are required:

 * PostgreSQL JDBC driver
 * JavaSnmp >= 1.4 (A.K.A Drexel SNMP)

The following python modules are required:

 * django (>= 1.0)
 * egenix-mxdatetime
 * ipy
 * ldap
 * psycopg2 >= 2.0.8
 * pysnmp2
 * rrd
 * pyrad
 * xmpp (optional)

psycopg2 should be at least version 2.0.8: Earlier versions have bugs that will
cause some NAV programs to crash.

Recommended add-ons
-------------------
If you want to connect a mobile phone to your NAV server and enable SMS alerts
in alert profiles, you will need to install the Gammu and python-gammu
packages.  The SMS damon can use plugins to dispatch SMS'es through other
means, but using Gammu as an SMS dispatcher is the default.

If you wish to use the Jabber plugin for alertengine, the python module xmpp is
required.


Installing NAV
==============
To install NAV, do the following::

  ./configure CRICKETDIR=/path/to/cricket/binaries
  make
  make install

If you wish to configure NAV to run from a different location than the default
/usr/local/nav you should specify a new directory using the --prefix= option of
the configure script, e.g. "./configure --prefix=/opt/nav".

If you are building an RPM package (or similar) of NAV, you may wish to have
the files installed in a physically different location (a temporary build
directory) than what you configured the package for.  In this case, you should
specify this build directory by adding "DESTDIR=/your/build/directory" to "make
install" command. You should also have a look at whatever .spec files you can
find below the packages/ directory.

If you omit the CRICKETDIR variable, which specifies the path to your Cricket
installation's binaries, it will be assumed that these can be found in
${prefix}/cricket/cricket, i.e.  /usr/local/nav/cricket/cricket if all default
values are unchanged.  A typical value for a Debian install is
/usr/share/cricket .


Java libraries
--------------
Before building, you must make sure that the JavaSNMP (from drexel.edu) is
available on your JVM's CLASSPATH. If it is not, you need to explicitly add it
to the CLASSPATH environment variable before running `make` as described above.

If the library is located in /usr/share/java/, then something like this should
be appropriate:

  export CLASSPATH=/usr/share/java/libsnmp-1.4.jar

