Contents of statTools/cricket
=============================

This directory contains files for a default NAV-installation of
Cricket. It is divided into three directories named after the Cricket
counterpart. You should find the same directories in any
Cricket-install if you have followed the instructions in the document
"Installing Cricket for the Complete Beginner"
(http://cricket.sourceforge.net/support/doc/beginner.html).

To make use of these files, just issue a copy command directly to the
cricket installation directory, and confirm to overwrite any existent
files. 

NB! The files in this directory does not merge very well with the
existent files in a Cricket installation. You are meant to use these
files if and only if you have a completely clean installation of
Cricket. If you have made your own local modifications to the cricket
configuration, copy and paste the needed configuration from these
files to your own cricket installation.


The directories contain the following configuration:


cricket
-------

In the directory "cricket" you will find a sample "subtree-sets"
file. This file contains configuration necessary for the collector to
start collecting data on a basic NAV-install of Cricket.

Again, if you already have your own "subtree-sets" file, copy and
paste the relevant information from this file to your existent file. 


cricket-config
--------------

In this directory you will find a sample configuration needed to make
NAV-v3 run data-collection on routers, switches and their
interfaces. In this directory (and it's subdirectories) there are
.nav-files. These files are hidden (because of their .) to make them
invisible to the Cricket-compiler, that otherwise would parse them as
Cricket config-files. 

The .nav-files files are used to make the job easier for
makecricketconfig.pl. Also remember to compile cricket once before you
run makecricketconfig.pl as the script depends on information from the
database (config.db) that is created during a cricket-compile.

Both the .nav and other files in this directory may be tampered with
if you want, but please make sure that you understand how things work
before you do that. 

Included in the Default-files are some target-types which should suit
some of the box-types encountered on a network. These types are
automatically made during a run of makecricketconfig, but as the views
of each target is not made automatically, we choose to include the
target-types we knew. 


views
-----

If makecricketconfig, or you, have made a new targettype, you have to
make your own view that suits that targettype. A view is a group of
datasources (i.e. cpu1min, cpu5min and so on) that appear on the same
graph when viewing Cricket-graphs on the web-page. If you have no
views defined in the target-type, all datasources will appear on the
same graph. This may be messy and is seldom recommended. 

Making your own view is not difficult at all. Most datasources have a
corresponding graph with the same name. So to group the datasources you
want in one view, you just make your own group, select the
target-types you want in it and then you are done.

Example of target-type without view:

targetType RSM
ds = "cpu1min,cpu5min,mem5minUsed,mem5minFree"

We see that there are two natural views here, cpu and memory. So to
make a view out of it we divide the datasources into two groups. This
is done by making a new line that starts with "view =" and then add
the groups. You can see the format on the line below. Groups are
divided with a "," (comma). Datasources are divided with a space and
everything is enclosed in "" (quotes)

view = "cpu:cpu1min cpu5min,memory:mem5minUsed mem5minFree"

If you are still uncertain of how to make your own views, look at the
sample config in the Default-files included in the
cricket-config-directory, or consult "The Cricket Reference Guide" at
http://cricket.sourceforge.net/support/doc/reference.html.


public_html
-----------

In this directory there is only a simple css-file to make the Cricket
web-page a bit more candy for the eye. If you already have a css-file,
feel free to use your own, but test this one to see if you like the
result better. Who knows, you may be pleased with the result. 


--
Last changed 23/02-04 by John Magne Bredal